Okay so welcome back.
In this video going to be looking at the index page and when to start rearranging the header and the
footer and also add in some content or functions file.
Okay.
So a couple of things before we get started.
If you make sure that the mump which you downloaded in the last video is up and running.
So if you say start servers make sure that you click on them to get them started.
And then in your text editor if you open up the tranquil w.p. which is the field folder for the project
and then head over to your web browser.
And then if you type in the local host call on 8 8 8 8 9 faulds lush tranquil dashed w.p. and it'll
will take us to the index page that we need to begin working on if we need to get back to the WordPress
dashboard.
We need to just forward slash admin on to the end of the you are old.
And it will take us back to the dashboard.
OK.
So let's get started in the text editor.
We created our header on the foote's Files in the last video so we can put both the header Unni footer
in these files so we're going to take the header amni footer from the index page.
So if we go to the index dot P P and then scroll to the top of the page we need to copy or cut all the
content from the very top of the web page.
All the way down.
Until we get to the closing head it's aag which is just so coppula.
Right to the very top.
And then could that.
And now the head section is going to go into it on file which is the had a p HP.
So paste right in there and save.
And then if we go back into the index page will do exactly the same with the footer section.
So scroll down to the bottom of the page and then below the shop online section.
Look for the footer comment and then cut all the content right to the very end of the index page.
So could that.
And then head to the foot adopt p p peyster in and safe.
OK.
So if I go back to the index stop HP.
So what we're left with is just the main content of the web page.
We've taken the header and the footer section.
So because now the header and footer are in their own files we need to link those back to the index
page.
That's quite straightforward to do.
If you go back to the very top where the heris action was going to start you can some people be so to
begin P2P.
First of all we need to have the file name with dippie HP extension and then to use HP in the page.
We use an open angle bracket and then a question mark.
And then B.
So this is the open untuck and the close and tigg is the questionmark and then the close and angle bracket.
Okay.
And then between the opening and closing broker we use the word press get ahead a function so get underscore
header because it's function we use the curlee brackets and then a semicolon at the end.
And then we do exactly the same but use get footer at the very bottom of the page.
So again we'll use the HP opening and closing times.
And then inside the tags we were pressed get to function.
The brackets and then semicolon.
So effectively what we've created is a header underfoot a template and everytime we want to reuses in
wordpress rather than retighten over the same code over and over again well can just simply use the
HP and use the get header or the get footer function.
So and save the index page.
And then next we need to go over to our functions dot P P and because all the functions are going to
be mph.
P We need to make sure that all the content on this page is between the organ in unclose and pay tribute
Ikes.
So let's start by creating a p HP function.
So if we might use Patrie before it uses the function key word and a function is basically just a chunk
of code which we give a name to um can call it when we need it.
So to set this up use function and then the name afterwards which is tranquil.
WP underscore settle.
And then at the end of the function name we use the curlee brackets and then use a set of curly braces
and all the information that we put between the curly braces is going to be the code which is executed
when the Feme is set up.
So we'll add more to this later but for now we're going to add some themes support for our assess or
automatic feelings links so we do a buy out theme support.
And in the quote.
Type in automatic.
Hafe and feed for links and then a semicolon at the end.
Make sure that sir feed the sun makes you all the RSS information gets to the head section properly.
Are going to add Feme support also for the title tigg.
It enables both themes and plugins to access the document title so I can change it dynamically so Feme
support.
And of the quotes in the.
This one is gonna be the title title or title high from tigg.
So next need to tell WordPress to one this function.
When setting up the Feme So go outside the curly braces and then only to add an action.
And the brackets and then the semicolon at the end.
And is he going to take in two parameters.
So the first one in the quotes is after the score set up underscore Feme and then separate by a comma.
We need to put the function name which is tranquil WP set up so we just copy and paste up between the
E quotes.
And then one more piece of p p you need to add into the functions file before move on.
Is it fair go up to the very top.
OK so going he's a p p if statement.
So if you've not seen one of these before it's really nothing to worry about.
So I'll just get started by typing now and then we'll talk over exactly what top name.
So we're going to check if a condition is met and if it is we'll run the piece of code between these
curly braces.
So the piece of gold one to run is one to add a variable called the content whit.
This is going to be set to six hundred and sixty pixels.
And this value was gained control the maximum width of any piece of content which is in the Word Press
Feme and we used to make sure that the user can't upload something such as a image which is far too
large for the design and causes lay up problems.
And then put our condition between the brackets other top so long to use the exclamation mark and then
is set.
And then between two more curly brackets we're going to put our variable which is the content.
So this statement would normally check if this variable exists by utzon is set but because we use an
exclamation mark before it check and the opposite.
So if the variable content width is not set then use the variable between these curly braces and make
sure the content is no bigger than 660 pixels wide.
Okay.
That's the functions finish for this video.
Well more to this as we progress through the course.
But just one more thing I want to show we before we finish this video it is now stand to pay HP to our
Web site.
We need to make sure that debugging is enabled.
And I'll show you exactly why.
If you go over to Chrome and then go to visit site.
This is whole the site is looking now.
It doesn't look very pretty but it is working.
So if would go over to our index page and then make a type of mistake.
So for example if we go to the thp at the top of the page.
For example if we weren't put in the close and tigg after dippie HP and then if we refresh the browser
you can see that we'll get a white screen.
So because we've got a white blank screen we know that we've made a mistake somewhere but we've got
no indication to show us exactly where we've gone wrong.
So to give us an indication of exactly which line of code we've gone wrong on we need to go to our WordPress
folder which is in the Haiti docs.
So find mump.
HD docs.
Tranquil w.p..
And then we need to go back into the config file.
Where we set our database information.
So just double click to open all up and then scroll down below all the password and database information.
And the key is insults.
Right up the bottom of the page.
If you look for the.
Define w.p. debug by default this is set to false.
So they're going to set this to true and then save that.
But don't forget to change it back to False.
If you were to upload this to a web server.
So save that and then refresh in Chrome.
And then this will give us a a line.
And it tells us exactly where we've gone wrong.
So in our index page online free.
Let's take a look.
So we can see that the issue was online one bought but WordPress didn't discover there was an issue
until it found some hate Jim ole online free.
So it may not be exactly on the line.
Brooke gives a good indication exactly where the problem lies.
So then we can just close off that HP save and then refresh and everything should be working again.
OK so that's the end of this video and we'll see in the next video will start working on the header
and footer.